# Software Lifecycle Models -- Engineering System

### Characteristics
- *Repeatable*: re-use
- *Responsible*: best practices and ethics
- *Systematic*: planned, documented, analyzed
- *Measurable*: not only for the product but also the process

*Cost of changing gets higher as the project expands.*

### Waterfall
1. Requirement
2. Analysis
3. Design
4. Implementation
5. Integration Test
6. System Test
7. Regression Test

>[!warning] The objectives change over time, this methodology doesn't adapt well.
#### Rapid Prototyping
Still doesn't plan and test the sys architecture well in advance.

### Incremental

>[!success] Issues/Difficulties/Defects are highlighted earlier in the process and solutions are fed in to the remaining iterations. Clients can use parts of system sooner. 


### RUP Iterative Development

### Agile

Adapt the changes. Deliver the software frequently.

---
### Extreme Programming
*Adapt to changes in all aspects*
* Write Test first, then dev
- No character difference among the team members.
- Plan and keep it updated
- **Pair programming**, and *swap pairs* to get the full prospective of the architecture
	- Be humble to keep learning.
	- Each pair, for each swaption, one stays to distribute the info and one left to learn another component.
	- Collective Code Ownership: so no blame
- Refactor all along
- CI, keep copies of previous repository  and be ready to go back
>[!Tip] Core Values
>1. Simplicity
>	1. delivery simplest function that meet the needs
>	2. design simplest software
>	3. **Build for today not tmr**
>2. Communication
>3. Feedback
>4. Courage
www.extremeprogramming.org

### Scrum
No test-driven as eXP. But with Planning and project management.
